---
title: "Namespaces"
category: "cka-certification"
tags: ["cka-certification", "namespaces"]
---

* Two boys, Mark Smith and Mark Williams.
	* In each house, the father addresses their Mark as Mark and the other Mark in the other house as Mark Smith.
* Houses correspond to Namespaces in Kubernetes.
* `Default` namespace is created automatically by Kubernetes when it is first setup.
* There are some other internal services that are created when Kubernetes first starts.
	* This is called `kube-system`
* A third namespace automatically generated by Kubernetes is called `kube-public`. This is made available to all users.
* For production clusters, multiple namespaces are important.
* For example, having a `Dev` and `Production` environment and then at the same time isolate the resources between them, create a different namespace for each. One being `Dev` and the other being `Production`.
* Each namespace has a policy to define what can be done.
* A namespace can have a quota of resources assigned to it.
	* For example CPU, disk usage and so on.
* The resources in a namespace can refer to each other by their `hostnames`: `web-prod`, `db-service` and `web-deployment` as examples. This could be in the form of `mysql.connect("db-service")` as an example.
* A pod can reach a service in another namespace as well. The namespace has to be appended, as well as the service name. An example is `mysql.connect("db-service.dev.svc.cluster.local")`
	* When a `service` is created, a DNS entry is added with the above format.
	* `cluster.local` is the default domain name of the Kubernetes cluster.
	* `svc` stands for `sub-domain` for the service.
	* In the above example, `service name` is `db-service`, `dev` is the namespace, `svc` is the service and `cluster.local` is the domain.
* `kubectl get pods` only lists the pods of the default namespace.
* To list pods in another namespace, we run `kubectl get pods --namespace=<namespace_here>`.
* To create a pod in another namespace, use `kubectl create -f pod-definition.yml --namespace=dev`
	* The above can also be performed in the `pod-definition.yml` file, by adding the `namespace` option to the `pod-definition.yml` file:
```
pod-definition.yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod

metadata
 name: myapp-pod
 labels:
     app: myapp
     type: front-end
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx-container
    image: nginx
```
* The pod is created in the default namespace.
* To create the pod in another namespace, use the `--namespace=` option:
```
kubectl create -f pod-definition.yml --namespace=<namespace_here>
```
* Can actually add the `namespace` definition to the `pod-definition.yml` file, so you do not need to enter it from the commandline constantly:
```
pod-definition.yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod

metadata:
 name: myapp-pod
 namespace: dev
 labels:
     app: myapp
     type: front-end
spec:
  containers:
  - name: nginx-container
    image: nginx
```
* To create a new namespace, use a `yml` file. An example is below:
```
namespace-dev.yml

apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
     name: dev
```
* Then run the `kubectl` command, such as `kubectl create -f namespace-dev.yml`.
* Else, you can create a namespace without needing the above `yml` file with:
```
kubectl create namespace <namespace_name>
```
* How to switch to another namespace permanently. We can do that using `kubectl` to set the context of the current `namespace`:
```
kubectl config set-context $(kubectl config current-context) --namespace=<namespace_here>
```
* Then can see these pods with `kubectl get pods` - no need to specify the namespace.
* To view pods in all namespaces, use `kubectl get pods --all-namespaces`
* `contexts` are used to manage multiple clusters and environments from the same management system.
* To limit resources in a `namespace`, create a Resource Quota. Under `spec`, provide the limits. To create a Resource Quota, see an example `yml` file below:
```
Compute-quota.yaml

apiVersion: v1
kind: ResourceQuota
metadata:
     name: compute-quota
	 namespace: <namespace_name>

spec:
  hard:
     pod: "10"
     requests.cpu: "4"
     requests.memory: 5Gi
     limits.cpu: "10"
     limits.memory: 10Gi
```
* Then create the file with `kubectl create -f compute-quota.yaml`
* 